# Berean Standard Bible

## License Information

**Berean Standard Bible** is based on and adapted from: _Berean Standard Bible_, [Berean Standard Bible](https://berean.bible), None, which is licensed under a [Public Domain CC0](https://creativecommons.org/public-domain/cc0/).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## 2 John 1:1 (id: 163001001)

1The elder, To the chosen lady and her children, whom I love in the truth—and not I alone, but also all who know the truth—


## 2 John 1:2 (id: 163001002)

2because of the truth that abides in us and will be with us forever:


## 2 John 1:3 (id: 163001003)

3Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and from Jesus Christ, the Son of the Father, will be with us in truth and love.


## 2 John 1:4 (id: 163001004)

4I was overjoyed to find some of your children walking in the truth, just as the Father has commanded us.


## 2 John 1:5 (id: 163001005)

5And now I urge you, dear lady—not as a new commandment to you, but one we have had from the beginning—that we love one another.


## 2 John 1:6 (id: 163001006)

6And this is love, that we walk according to His commandments. This is the very commandment you have heard from the beginning, that you must walk in love.


## 2 John 1:7 (id: 163001007)

7For many deceivers have gone out into the world, refusing to confess the coming of Jesus Christ in the flesh. Any such person is the deceiver and the antichrist.


## 2 John 1:8 (id: 163001008)

8Watch yourselves, so that you do not lose what we have worked for, but that you may be fully rewarded.


## 2 John 1:9 (id: 163001009)

9Anyone who runs ahead without remaining in the teaching of Christ does not have God. Whoever remains in His teaching has both the Father and the Son.


## 2 John 1:10 (id: 163001010)

10If anyone comes to you but does not bring this teaching, do not receive him into your home or even greet him.


## 2 John 1:11 (id: 163001011)

11Whoever greets such a person shares in his evil deeds.


## 2 John 1:12 (id: 163001012)

12I have many things to write to you, but I would prefer not to do so with paper and ink. Instead, I hope to come and speak with you face to face, so that our joy may be complete.


## 2 John 1:13 (id: 163001013)

13The children of your elect sister send you greetings.


